This document is intended for non-technical users, who are beginners on Github. For advanced documentation, please read the files in the doc/ folder.
Thank you for your interest in the tool!


If you have a Mac, the tool is not available on your machine (we -devs- would need to pay a license to Apple to develop on MacOS, which is not planned).
If you are on Linux, launch Python (3.11 or similar), install the requirements with pip3, and run the tool. You are normally enough tech-savy to do it on your own, but contact me if needed (email address in README).
If you are on Windows (or do not know what an OS is), please continue reading.


If you are reading this, you are either online or you have downloaded the project from the main Github page. Unfortunately, you just downloaded the source code of the application, which needs to be launched with a programming language (Python 3.11), or compiled. I assume that you just want to test the tool, and not start a programming project yourself (for now).

If you do not wish to bother with these aspects for now, and just want an application that "just works" and can be launched directly, go to https://github.com/The-dEnd/Crop-Search-DSP/releases
From there, you will have a list of versions to download, in .7z or .zip format.

Download and extract one of them.
Inside, you will have 1 folders and an executable called "Outil_poincons.exe", with a "fox die" logo. 
Add in the folder the folders tmp/, resources/ and models/ from the Github main page (they are too big to be included in the Releases). In models/, unzip best.pt as well.
Double click on the "fox" executable. You will be asked for a folder containing photography of sherds with dies. Provide one. After a loading time, you will be on the tool main page, and you can start testing it.

The die classifications you will make will be available in a file "_Final_Output.csv". You can open it with Notepad, Microsoft Excel, OpenOffice Calc, LibreOffice Calc, or other software.


If you're using Avast antimalware, you may get an alert and the file will be quarantined. To keep the explanations simple, Avast spots that the file is not originating (and signed) by a known entity, and thus assumes that it's malicious. To get the file back, you should add an exception: https://support.avast.com/en-en/article/Antivirus-scan-exclusions/#pc
If you don't trust the file based on the author's good faith (perfectly understandble), you can scan it with Windows Defender directly on your computer with a right click, or upload the file to https://www.virustotal.com/gui/home/upload, to get a look on the opinion of multiple antimalware on the file.


If you find that the model's predictions are bad, it's probably because you're not using photos of sherds/dies made in Las Cravieros: the model was trained with data from this site only, and will always try to match your photos with what it knows, aka Las Cravieros.
To adapt the model to another site, contact us to discuss your needs.